**Kickstarting with Excel**
===========================

Overview
--------

The analysis of this data set was created to help a client determine her
approach with her Kickstarter by reviewing what made a Kickstarter
successful or a failure. This analysis will take a closer look at
different variables to discover what helps a Kickstarter reach its
listed goal and what to avoid to ensure you meet the set goal.

Analysis and Challenges
-----------------------

Based on the client's needs, the analysis uses a large set of data taken
from Kickstarter that includes a range of variables such as posted goals
and pledges. In this analysis, we have focused on the goal listed,
outcomes, the country, launch date, and category/subcategory to figure
out what best boosted the Kickstarter meets its goal.Due to the client
wanting to start the Kickstarter for a play the data will focus on data
that is under the theater category and play subcategory. When combing
through the data, a challenge that I encountered is data points that
deviate far from the mean that it doesn't show an accurate
representation of what to expect but must still be included because
tampering with the data could change the conclusion of the analysis.

Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
-----------------------------------------

As shown in the image below Kickstarters that had their launch date in
May found the highest success. What can be concluded from the graph is
that from the start of May, your chances of your Kickstarter being
successful only will decline a significant amount for each month that
passes by. ![outcomes based on launch
date](C:\Users\The_Doctor\Documents\UofA\Homework\Module_1_Challenge\resources\Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)

Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
-----------------------------------

When reviewing the outcomes based on goals, we can conclude from the
data set that Kickstarters overall succeed and the goal doesn't affect
the chances of succeeding too much. The only range of goals that saw low
success was goals set below \$1000. ![outcomes based on
goals](C:\Users\The_Doctor\Documents\UofA\Homework\Module_1_Challenge\resources\Outcomes_dates.png)

Results
-------

What can be concluded from the outcomes based on launch date is that the
client should attempt to launch her Kickstarter by May and if that's not
possible the second best option would be June. On the other hand she
should avoid posting her kickstarter during the winter months due to the
chances of succeding being significantly lower. Reviewing the dataset,
the goals has no significant role in the success of the fundraiser. Out
of the 12 ranges of goals, 1 of the set had a 28% success rate which was
the goals set under \$1000 and the other set which had goals set between
\$45000 to \$49999, didn't have any projects recorded. The other 10 sets
in the dataset had at least a 90% success rate or better. While the
dataset has useful information that can help the client, there are
limitation in this Excel sheet. The first limitation that comes to mind
is not all countries that have access and the ability to post their own
Kickstarter, is listed in this sheet. This could possibly exclude data
that can paint a different picture not shown. There is also the fact
that you can't see which country backers come from. This can be useful
if you come from a country that does not donate too much. Other tables
or graphs that can be created for the analysis is the outcomes based on
if the Kickstarter was a staff pick and see if this helped bring in more
backers to the page.
